In the previous sections,
late or buggy dependencies were put to the side and
we pulled other work forward,
and that's great, but if there's no other work to pull forward,
then we have idle resources, and we don't want that.
In Kanban, blockers are unproductive, and we want to be flexible
and adaptable to keep work moving forward.
Here are a few other options for handing late or buggy dependencies. In
Kanban, we always want to keep work moving forward.
Okay, you are blocked by a late dependency or a buggy dependency.
So to keep things moving forward,
what you can do is build something that looks and
behaves like the code you are waiting for.
This will allow you to keep moving forward as best as
you can until the code arrives.
We will talk about three ways to do this: fakes,
stubs, and mocks, and give you examples of when to use them.
Here's a note.
The literature has slightly varying definitions of these terms,
but it's just important to understand the essence of this section.
Fakes are objects that have working implementations.
They will mimic or fake the dependency code that we're waiting for.
So when we have a late dependency or the buggy code is not working for us,
then we can use a fake.
An example of this is maybe you need to make a call to an SAP endpoint,
but you do not have access because you are waiting for
your upstream partner to be completed.
Therefore,
you write a fake piece of code to simulate that interface
so that you're testing can move forward.
This helps with both late and buggy dependencies. So you
may not have all the code written, but maybe a really good chunk.
Now, if you finish writing the fake and you still end up being blocked,
then handle it just like we talked about in the previous two sections, but at
least when the late or buggy code does arrive in your backlog,
then you have most of the work complete.
A stub is an object that holds predefined data.
Stubs are used to return data from calls during tests.
An example would be a method that needs data from a database,
so you use a stub to return predefined data that will
be used by the calling routine.
Let's say you wanted to populate a grid on a web page. You could use a stub to
bring back data in the exact format you would be expecting it to come in, and
continue writing your code. When the work item you're waiting for is complete,
you simply swap the stub and make the call.
You should be good to go. Now, if you still ended up blocked,
then handle it just like we talked about in the previous two sections, but at
least when the later buggy code does arrive in your backlog,
then you'll have most of your work complete.
Mocks or mocking is a process using unit testing when the unit being
tested has external dependencies like we discussed.
The purpose of mocking is to isolate and concentrate on the code being
tested and not on the behavior of our dependencies.
A mock is a much more sophisticated version of a stub.
It will still return values like a stub,
but it can also be programmed with expectations in terms of
how many times each method should be called,
in which order, and with what data. Use a mocking framework if you
are expecting many dependency issues. Then consider which is the
mocking framework best for your situation.
Mocking frameworks are used to generate replacement objects like
stubs and mocks. Mocking frameworks compliment unit testing
frameworks by isolating dependencies.
So again,
a little more sophisticated approach, maybe start with the first
two, fakes and stubs, and then maybe graduate with mocks if you
think you need them. Let's mark up our standard board in how we
will work with fakes, stubs, and mocks.
Let's say this purple work in progress item found an upstream bug in
a component it was consuming from another team.
So we have decided that instead of moving the work
item to the LATE/BUGS as before,
we will just keep working on it by building a mock. We will add a card to
the LATE/BUGS column to represent the fact that we have a mock that we will
have to remove at some point, and the card, when the dependency or the bug
is corrected, and mark it with a big M for mock. In these two areas, we
still title them LATE/BUGS, since that fits nicely into our earlier discussions.
But now, with the concept of mock stubs and shims,
a better naming convention is now in order.
Let's change the name of these areas to TRACK,
since that is what we are doing, and it is a better term and more
encompassing. TRACK is a better name than LATE or BUGS and is generic to
account for any dependency situation that might arise.
So that is another great thing about Kanban.
As things change and evolve,
you can make any changes you want to better accommodate
the situation and make the board more expressive and
illustrative about what's going on.
I love that about Kanban.
Here is another way to keep things moving forward.
The first is delivering partially completed work and of course
ensuring that your downstream partners know it.
This helps keep things moving forward to some degree certainly. Now,
you would also like to add a new card to your board to track
the remaining work that you still need to do.
This would also mean though that you need to relax
your done rules for certain steps,
since you are letting uncompleted or not fully tested
code to your downstream partners.
The benefit in this scenario is that it allows your
downstream partners to continue forward,
knowing new versions will be coming from you soon.
Please note, this takes great communication and trust between your two teams.
Therefore,
this may not always work in all situations, and also means you need a lot more tracking to track these situations as well.